rewrite NAT section (#257)
quicwg/ops-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-manageability.md

be tempting in light of this property, but not all QUIC server deployments will
be robust to rebinding.

Recommendations on time-outs for stateful network functions such as NATs is

> providded in {#sec-stateful}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provided in {#sec-stateful}.
```

### Resource Conservation

Use of QUIC's connecction ID for NAT mappings is not a viable approach to

> extend operational limits of deployed NATs as the connection ID is not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
extend operational limits of deployed NATs, as the connection ID is not
```

guaranteed to be constant over the lifetime of a connection. Endpoints may 

> begin using new connection IDs at will at any time during the connection

Author: ```suggestion
begin using new connection IDs at will at any time during the connection.
```

As such, the use of the connection ID
to multiplex connections over a single address and port would cause the
connectivity to break when the connection ID changes to a value that does not have
an active mapping.

Not-yet-used connection IDs are unknown to in-network devices and cannot

> be easily associated with a connection ID is use as new connections ID are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be easily associated with a connection ID in use, as new connection IDs are
```

negotiated inside cryptographically protected packets between the endpoints

> and as such are not obserable in the network. Alternatively, sharing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and as such are not observable in the network. Alternatively, sharing
```

> confgurations between the client and NAT might be logistically challenging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configurations between the client and NAT might be logistically challenging
```

> to impossible, especially when client migrates with an existing connection to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or impossible, especially when client migrates with an existing connection to
```

> a point behind the NAT. {{QUIC_LB}} described mechansms to encode the client's

Author: ```suggestion
a point behind the NAT. {{QUIC_LB}} described mechanisms to encode the client's
```

> a point behind the NAT. {{QUIC_LB}} described mechanisms to encode the client's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a point behind the NAT. {{QUIC_LB}} describes mechanisms to encode the connection's
```

identity in
a connection ID to be used for load balancing. However, the described approach
requires explicit coordination between the endpoint and network devices using the
connection ID under the assumption that servers and load balancers are deployed

> by the same entity or cooperating entities.

Reviewer 3: This might be replaced by text that just says "Coordination with endpoints is necessary if connection IDs are to be used as QUIC provides confidentiality protection for the negotiation of connection IDs.  A NAT might be able to coordinate with endpoints using the methods described in {{QUIC_LB}}."

> Note that multiplexing connection IDs over a single port anyway violates the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that multiplexing connection IDs over a single port also violates the
```

best common practice to avoid "port overloading" as described in {{?RFC4787}}.

Furthermore, wide deployment of NATs with this behavior hinders the use of
QUIC's migration function, which relies on the ability to change the connection

> ID any time during the lifetime of a QUIC connection.

Author: Not sure I fully understand this point actually. If path changes are concealed, no migration is needed...

If a NAT hits an operational limit where the available public IP addresses and
ports are

> exhausted, it should rather drop the initial packets of a connecton than

Reviewer: ```suggestion
exhausted, it should drop the initial packets of a connection rather than
```

> exhausted, it should drop the initial packets of a connection rather than

Reviewer 3: NATs don't know about connections, they can only observe flows.

```suggestion
exhausted, it should drop the initial packets of a flow rather than
```

> risking to break it later. As QUIC is based on UDP and there are known blockings of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
risking breakage later. As QUIC is based on UDP and some devices are known to block
```

> UDP, QUIC deplyoments are recommended to implemenet a fallback to TCP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UDP, QUIC deployments are recommended to implement a fallback to TCP
```

> {{?I-D.ietf-quic-applicability}}. Therefore it is often preferable for QUIC

Author: I also wonder is this actually entirely true. If you cannot get a binding for your QUIC connection, why would you get a binding for a TCP connection? Isn't some connectivity, even at the risk that it might break later in the connection better than no connectivity?

Reviewer 3: If clients prefer QUIC over TCP, which is likely to happen real soon now, then I don't think that it is unreasonable to expect more free TCP capacity.

> to fail and fallback during connectiion establishment rather persisting with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to fail and fallback during connection establishment rather than persist with a
```

> to fail and fallback during connection establishment rather than persist with a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to fail and fallback when the flow is first used rather than persist with a
```

> connection that might be unstable or expierencing

Author: Not sure if NATs would make a connection unstable or just break it...? Complete breaking is actually better to detect than unstable connectivity. You still have to eat a time-out but then you will immediately be able to re-connect.

> sudden connection errors and time outs later during the connection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
sudden errors and time outs later.
```

### "Helping" with routing infrastructure issues

Concealing client address changes in order to simplify operational routing
issues will mask important signals that drive security mechanisms, and
therefore opens QUIC up to various attacks.

While QUIC's migration capability makes it possible for an server to survive

> address changes, this does not work if the routers or swtches in the server

Author: ```suggestion
address changes, this does not work if the routers or switches in the server
```

infrastructures reply on address-port 4-tuple as a NAT rebinding or address
migration will cause packets to be delivered to the wrong server. {{QUIC_LB}}
addresses this problem proposing a QUIC extension to allow server-load balancer
coordination to routable CIDs.

An alternative, potentially simpler approach seem to be the use of NAT in front
of such an infrastructure setup, however, hinding information about the change
of the IP address or port conceals important, and security relevant information

> from QUIC enpoint and as such would facilitate amplification attacks (see

Author: ```suggestion
from QUIC enpoints and as such would facilitate amplification attacks (see
```

> An alternative, potentially simpler approach seem to be the use of NAT in front
> of such an infrastructure setup, however, hinding information about the change
> of the IP address or port conceals important, and security relevant information
> from QUIC enpoints and as such would facilitate amplification attacks (see
> section 9 of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An alternative, potentially simpler approach would seem to be the use of NAT in front
of such an infrastructure setup. However, hiding information about the change
of the IP address or port conceals important, and security relevant information
from QUIC endpoints, and as such would facilitate amplification attacks (see
section 9 of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}).
```

> section 9 of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}).

Reviewer 3: Rather than phrase this as a viable alternative (as the lead-in text implies), make it clear that this is non-viable.

> It might seem possible to use a NAT that uses connection IDs to provide a stable address 4-tuple.  This might work if servers cooperate to inform the NAT of all connection IDs that might be used for each connection.  However, hiding address changes from a server prevents the server from validating new addresses, which would facilitate amplification attacks (see {{Section 9 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}).

> An NAT that blleaches peer address changes, hinders the other end

Author: ```suggestion
An NAT that bleaches peer address changes, hinders the other end
```

to detect and mitigate these attacks and verify connectivity to the

> new address based on QUIC PATH_CHALLENGE and PATH_RESPONSE frames.

Author: This paragraph is probably redundant...

Reviewer: Honestly, I prefer the original wording of this subsection. But you're the editor!

Author: I was trying to make it more clear what the recommendation actually is and remove some redundancy. I can give it another, less invasive try.

However, I think the main point about redundancy is actually that you basically say the same thing in this and the previous section (only that the motivation do use CID is different). So I would actually rather structure the text by "approach" than by use case but that would an even bigger rewrite. 

I'll have another look with a fresh pair of eyes tomorrow!

encrypted PATH_CHALLENGE frame, so it might start redirecting all QUIC traffic
to the attacker address and thus allow an observer to break the connection.

In addition, change of IP address or port is also an input signal to other

> internal mechanisms in QUIC. E.g. when a path change is detected, path-dependent

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
internal mechanisms in QUIC. When a path change is detected, path-dependent
```
